---
id: margintrade
title: How To Margin Trade On DDEX
---

# Margin Trading Modes

We have two modes of margin trading on DDEX - basic and pro mode. Basic mode is a simplified form of margin trading: you just enter in what you want your final position to look like and DDEX helps you get there. Pro mode unlocks the full power of margin trading, with complete control over your position.

## Basic Margin Trading

A margin position is generated by depositing collateral into a market, borrowing assets, and trading to create leverage. In the basic mode, you'll have two transactions: one for depositing and borrowing, and another for performing the trade.

To begin, select whether you want to go "long" or "short" on an asset. Long means you think the base asset is going to gain value over the quote asset (ETH is the base asset in the ETH-USDT market, while USDT is the quote asset). Short means you think that the base asset will lose value compared to the quote asset.

Next, you select the leverage rate you'd like for the final position. The leverage rate indicates how much you'd like to borrow vs how much you want to deposit. If I wanted to deposit 1 ETH, a 2x leverage would borrow 1 ETH of assets. A 3x leverage would borrow 2 ETH, 4x would borrow 3 ETH, etc.

Lastly, decide how much you want in your final position. If you select 10 ETH, your final position will combine to total 10 ETH of assets (deposited assets + borrowed assets = 10 ETH of value).

This is a link to [another document.](doc3.md)  
This is a link to an [external page.](http://www.example.com)
